README.md, before:

# CHL Statistics Website

This is a website that displays player statistics from the Canadian Hockey League. Statistics are available in both totals and rate (per game) form for the 2022-23, 2021-22, and 2020-21 seasons. Please note that Ontario Hockey League statistics are not available for the 2020-21 season as the OHL did not play any games that year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The stats can be filtered by serveral factors, including game strength (even-strength, powerplay, shorthanded, and all-situations), season, league, team, position, players, player birthdate range, and minimum games played. The resulting statistics table can also be sorted by any of its columns.

The website is built with NextJS and deployed with Vercel. Statistics are stored in a PostgreSQL database.

The website can be viewed here: https://chl-stats-site.vercel.app

## Images

### Stats

![Screenshot of the website stats page](/demoscreenshot-stats.png?raw=true)

### Glossary

![Screenshot of the website glossary page](/demoscreenshot-glossary.png?raw=true)

## Contact

Email me at ecmcdougald@gmail.com.

Commit message:

Adds motivation and build info

README.md, after:

# CHL Statistics Website

## Description

This is a website that displays player statistics from the Canadian Hockey League. Statistics are available in both totals and rate (per game) form for the 2022-23, 2021-22, and 2020-21 seasons. Please note that Ontario Hockey League statistics are not available for the 2020-21 season as the OHL did not play any games that year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The stats can be filtered by serveral factors, including game strength (even-strength, powerplay, shorthanded, and all-situations), season, league, team, position, players, player birthdate range, and minimum games played. The resulting statistics table can also be sorted by any of its columns.

The website can be viewed here: https://chl-stats-site.vercel.app

## Images

### Stats

![Screenshot of the website stats page](/demoscreenshot-stats.png?raw=true)

### Glossary

![Screenshot of the website glossary page](/demoscreenshot-glossary.png?raw=true)

## Motivation

The National Hockey League's greatest source of player talent is the junior-level Canadian Hockey League, consisting of the Ontario Hockey League, Western Hockey League, and Quebec Major Junior Hockey League. [80 of the 224 players selected at the 2023 NHL Draft played in the CHL, the most of any developmental hockey league in the world.](https://chl.ca/article/80-canadian-hockey-league-players-selected-2023-nhl-draft/) Player statistics like goals, assists, and points provide another tool with which future NHL players can be identified while playing junior hockey. Basic player statistics are available on the [CHL's website](chl.ca), but these stats lack the querying and detail required for in-depth analysis. My website displays a greater variety of stats as well as a greater ability to query statistics based on a variety of useful considerations, including (but not limited to) season, league, game state, and birthdate range. For example, a site user could query player statistics from the 2022-23 season for players born between 2004/09/15 and 2005/09/14 in order to compare player statistics for CHL players eligible for the 2023 NHL draft.

## How is it built?

The website is built with NextJS and deployed with Vercel. Statistics are scraped from [chl.ca](https://chl.ca) and stored in a PostgreSQL database. The database uses [Vercel Postgres](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-postgres). Data is fetched using NextJS's [Route Handlers](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/route-handlers).

## Contact

Email: ecmcdougald@gmail.com
